What is AWS Cloud

AWS provides on-demand delivery of technology services through the Internet with pay-as-you-go pricing. This is known as cloud computing.
The AWS Cloud encompasses a broad set of global cloud-based products that includes compute, storage, databases, analytics, networking, mobile, developer tools, management tools, IoT, security, and enterprise applications: on-demand, available in seconds, with pay-as-you-go pricing. With over 200 fully featured services available from data centers globally, the AWS Cloud has what you need to develop, deploy, and operate your applications, all while lowering costs, becoming more agile, and innovating faster.
For example, with the AWS Cloud, you can spin up a virtual machine, specifying the number of vCPU cores, memory, storage, and other characteristics in seconds, and pay for the infrastructure in per-second increments only while it is running. One benefit of the AWS global infrastructure network is that you can provision resources in the Region or Regions that best serve your specific use case. When you are done with the resources, you can simply delete them. With this built-in flexibility and scalability, you can build an application to serve your first customer, and then scale to serve your next 100 million.

Why AWS?

Amazon Web Services is the world’s most comprehensive and broadly adopted cloud, enabling customers to build anything they can imagine. We offer the greatest choice of innovative cloud capabilities and expertise, on the most extensive global infrastructure with industry-leading security, reliability, and performance.

The Leading Cloud:
Breakthrough innovations ||
AWS is committed to delivering industry-first cloud capabilities for our customers. The scale and scope at which we operate enable us to look around corners and think years ahead—to innovate on your behalf. We have delivered the first cloud-native services for compute, serverless, storage, and relational databases, and the first fully managed, end-to-end machine learning suite. 

Security you can trust ||
Security is our highest priority. We've architected our infrastructure and services to provide you with the most secure cloud computing environment available today. AWS helps meet the unique security requirements of the most sensitive workloads, trusted by government agencies, financial institutions, and healthcare organizations worldwide.

Greatest choice ||
AWS gives you the greatest choice and flexibility by offering the broadest and deepest set of cloud capabilities to build optimized solutions that balance performance and cost-effectiveness. With AWS, organizations modernize faster, scale more efficiently, and maintain competitive advantages through access to cutting-edge technologies and industry-specific solutions.

Largest and most extensive global infrastructure ||
We've built the world’s largest and most extensive global
infrastructure, providing you the capacity you need. Our infrastructure is uniquely architected to offer unparalleled scalability, performance, and reliability for your applications whether they are running in the cloud, on-premises, or at the edge.

Trusted partners and solutions ||
At AWS, we and our partners share an obsession over customer success and are committed to helping you find the right solutions. By combining our partners’ deep, specialized expertise with AWS services, infrastructure, and AWS Marketplace, we empower you to achieve exceptional business outcomes with greater speed and confidence.

AWS Global Infrastructure
The AWS Cloud spans 120 Availability Zones within 38 Geographic Regions, with announced plans for 10 more Availability Zones and 3 more AWS Regions in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Chile, and the AWS European Sovereign Cloud.

AWS Coverage Regions(North America)
Geographic Regions(9)

AWS GovCloud (US-East)
AWS GovCloud (US-West)
Canada (Central)
Canada West (Calgary)
Mexico (Central)
US West (Northern California)
US East (Northern Virginia)
US East (Ohio)
US West (Oregon)

The AWS Cloud in North America has 31 Availability Zones within 9 Geographic Regions, with 31 Edge Network Locations and 3 Edge Cache Locations.
Ashburn, VA
Atlanta GA
Boston, MA
Chicago, IL
Columbus, OH
Dallas/Fort Worth, TX
Denver, CO
Hayward, CA
Houston, TX
Jacksonville, FL
Kansas City, MO
Los Angeles, CA
Miami, FL
Minneapolis, MN
Montreal, QC
Nashville, TN
New York, NY
Newark, NJ
Palo Alto, CA
Phoenix, AZ
Philadelphia, PA
Portland, OR
Queretaro, MX
Salt Lake City, UT
San Jose, CA
Seattle, WA
South Bend, IN
St. Louis, MO
Tampa Bay, FL
Toronto, ON
Washington D.C.

Geographic Regions(South America)-2

South America (São Paulo)
South America (Chile)

Edge Locations(7)
The AWS Cloud in South America has 3 Availability Zones within 1 Geographic Regions, with 7 Edge Network Locations and 1 Edge Cache Locations.
Bogota, Colombia
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Fortaleza, Brazil
Lima, Peru
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
São Paulo, Brazil
Santiago, Chile

Geographic Regions(Europe)-9

Europe (Stockholm)
Europe (Frankfurt)
Europe (Ireland)
Europe (London)
Europe (Milan)
Europe (Paris)
Europe (Spain)
Europe (Zurich)

Edge Locations(31)

The AWS Cloud in Europe has 24 Availability Zones within 8 Geographic Regions, with 31 Edge Network Locations and 2 Edge Cache Locations.
Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Athens, Greece
Barcelona, Spain
Berlin, Germany
Brussels, Belgium
Bucharest, Romania
Budapest, Hungary
Copenhagen, Denmark
Dublin, Ireland
Dusseldorf, Germany
Frankfurt, Germany
Hamburg, Germany
Helsinki, Finland
Lisbon, Portugal
London, England
Madrid, Spain
Manchester, England
Marseille, France
Milan, Italy
Munich, Germany
Oslo, Norway
Palermo, Italy
Paris, France
Prague, Czech Republic
Rome, Italy
Sofia, Bulgaria
Stockholm, Sweden
Vienna, Austria
Warsaw, Poland
Zagreb, Croatia
Zurich, Switzerland

Geographic Regions(Middle east)-4

Middle East (Bahrain)
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Israel (Tel Aviv)
Middle East (UAE)

Edge Locations(7)

The AWS Cloud in Middle East has 9 Availability Zones within 3 Geographic Regions, with 7 Edge Network Locations and 0 Edge Cache Locations.
Cairo, Egypt
Dubai, UAE
Fujairah, UAE
Jeddah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Manama, Bahrain
Muscat, Oman
Tel Aviv, Israel

Geographic Regions(Africa)-1

Africa (Cape Town)

Edge Locations(4)
The AWS Cloud in Africa has 3 Availability Zones within 1 Geographic Regions, with 4 Edge Network Locations and 0 Edge Cache Locations.
Cape Town, South Africa
Johannesburg, South Africa
Lagos, Nigeria
Nairobi, Kenya

Geographic Regions(Asia Pacific)-13

Mainland China (Beijing)
Asia Pacific (Hong Kong)
Asia Pacific (Hyderabad)
Asia Pacific (Jakarta)
Asia Pacific (Malaysia)
Asia Pacific (Mumbai)
Mainland China (Ningxia)
Asia Pacific (Osaka)
Asia Pacific (Seoul)
Asia Pacific (Singapore)
Asia Pacific (Taipei)
Asia Pacific (Thailand)
Asia Pacific (Tokyo)

Edge Locations
23
The AWS Cloud in Asia Pacific has 41 Availability Zones within 13 Geographic Regions, with 23 Edge Network Locations and 4 Edge Cache Locations.
Bangalore, India
Bangkok, Thailand
Chennai, India
Hanoi, Vietnam
Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Hong Kong SAR, China
Hyderabad, India
Jakarta, Indonesia
Kolkata, India
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Manila, Philippines
Mumbai, India
New Delhi, India
Osaka, Japan
Pune, India
Seoul, South Korea
Singapore
Taipei, TaiwanTokyo, Japan
Beijing, China
Shanghai, China
Zhongwei, China
Shenzhen, China

Geographic Regions(Australia and New Zealand)-3

Australia (Melbourne)
Australia (Sydney)
AWS Asia Pacific (New Zealand)

Edge Locations(5)
The AWS Cloud in Australia and New Zealand has 9 Availability Zones within 3 Geographic Regions, with 5 Edge Network Locations and 1 Edge Cache Locations.
Auckland, New Zealand
Brisbane, Australia
Melbourne, Australia
Perth, Australia
Sydney, Australia
